---
title: "Global.asax in ASP.NET"
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - ASP.NET
  - CSharp
---

# Global.asax

- Global.asax is an optional file which is used to handling higher level application events such as Application_Start, Application_End, Session_Start, Session_End etc.

- It is also popularly known as ASP.NET Application File. This file resides in the root directory of an ASP.NET-based application.

- The Global.asax file is optional. If you do not define the file, the ASP.NET page framework assumes that you have not defined any application or session event handlers.

- Can Respond To Application Level Events

## Methods

1. Application_Start() : This method is invoked initially when first application domain is created.
2. Session_Start() : This method is called every time a session is start.
3. Application_BeginRequest() : After an application has started the first method Application_BeginRequest() is executed for every user.
4. Application_AuthenticateRequest() : It checks to determine whether or not the user is valid.
5. Application_Error() : Whenever an unhandled exception occurs then this event will be called.
6. Session_End() : When a user session is ended and all the data related to a specific user is cleared then the Session_End() event is called.
7. Application_End() : This method is called before the application ends. This can take place if IIS is restarted or the application domain is changing.
8. Application_Disposed() : This event is called after the application will be shut down and the .NET GC is about to reclaim the memory it occupies. Although this is very late to perform any clean-up but we can use it for safety purposes.
